Hi. My name is Emily Nolan.
I'm a grade six French teacher.
My name is Emily Briggs.
I'm a middle school science
and social studies teacher and a video
teacher as well.
We teach at Birchmount school.
Okay.
So we're here today
to talk to you about empathy
and what that looks like
in our classrooms.
In my classroom, it takes place
in a couple different settings.
So we both teach, a lot of social studies
in a lot of health.
So in my classroom,
it takes place in some questioning,
making sure that we're asking
big questions.
A lot of kids have, a lot of kids
have some thoughts, like preconceived
thoughts or understandings coming in.
So they may ask certain questions that
probe other people's opinions that pop up.
And so we're just working
through those questions
and making sure that we get a well-rounded
understanding and making sure that we're
empathetic to a lot of those views.
In my classroom,
that looks like role play.
So it could be activities
where students have the opportunity
to kind of see things
from the perspective of someone else
and work through that and see kind of how
that changes their opinions on things.
like, when they're expressing themselves,
we have it.
It can look different in a lot of ways.
So making sure that how they act
will always have this foundation of,
like, understanding other people
and understanding how they relate
and how they communicate with others
matters and making sure that they're
creating a safe space, a safe environment
that is inclusive to everyone.
And like I think we have a lot of students
coming in with a lot of
ideas and beliefs,
and I think sometimes providing them
a safe space to kind of navigate those
with like factual information and
kind of like safe adults, and
also creating a safe space for them
to talk about that with their peers.
It's really important.
I think we're both doing that
in our classrooms.
That safe spaces, something that like,
I, we both, really put an emphasis
on making sure that,
the kids in our room
are not just learning.
They're not just here to be practicing
education.
They're not just here
for the academic piece.
Like,
our job is not only to be their teacher,
but to help them build and become,
people that will eventually be in society
and have a job to interact
constantly and understand
different point of views and be able
to support and communicate effectively
and just be we're teaching them
as their whole.
We're trying to get them
as well-rounded as possible.
By the time they leave our classrooms
into the next one,
into their next steps of life.
And students are also really quick
to talk about their rights,
but we always like,
have a conversation as well.
Okay, you do have rights, but
with those rights comes responsibility.
And how do we navigate that together?
How do we make sure that everyone is able
to have those rights without forgetting
the responsibility? Piece?
So some tips for empathy in the classroom.
It's really having an understanding
that it's not something
that you need to be planning
this huge, extravagant lesson.
It's very much in your day to day
teaching,
the expectations you have of students,
the expectations you have of yourself,
and kind of the interactions
that you allow in the room
and what is and isn't acceptable.
I'll just add to that is,
making sure that as teachers, we like,
we use the words earlier,
making sure that we're treated,
that they're treating each other
how they want to be treated.
And same goes for us.
Like if we show them the skills,
if we show them how we want to be treated,
it helps them understand that.
So so that modeling piece model,
absolutely.
Making sure that they're seeing
what it looks like to be empathetic,
what it looks like to communicate
effectively to making it like helping them
just build those foundational skills and,
yeah, helping them
see each other as real people.
And I think earlier we talked to about,
this is kind of off track,
but we talked earlier about,
the jokes in middle school
and how sometimes,
like if you come at it from, like,
more of a, like a punishment lens,
like you shouldn't be joking about that.
That's not funny.
That doesn't help them
kind of find the understanding of
why something they say
might not actually be funny.
And it's actually harmful.
It just doesn't affect them.
And that is like a really important piece
I find in middle school,
just to kind of have them understand
the perspective of other people.